---
layout: post
title: Edit religiously
published: false
---

> Spelling mistakes are lazy mistakes.

I heard a guy say this on the subway once. And man, was he right. With SO many tools out there and presumably _professional_ writers, how do we constantly run into such blatant errors? I've even seen spelling errors in **Google's** content&mdash;in H1 headers! I realize I'm going to put my foot in it and definitely have spelling errors on this site (probably in this article; in my defense, I'm _not_ a professional writer), but I'm going to do as much as I can to avoid that fate.

That said, editing is much more than identifying typos. Editing your content is like staying well-hydrated water; _your content needs it to perform._ Editing not only ensures accuracy but clarifies your meaning by removing irrelevant tangents. In fact, I just edited the previous sentence because it had something in it that, after re-reading it, I thought "Really Becca? Editing does _that_??"

## Editing

### Spelling

Since I started this by mentioning spelling, I'll keep this at the top of the list. Spelling errors are painfully obvious to your readers and impact the trust your users have with your content. But, until AI is doing everything for us, spelling errors are going to happen because, guess what, a human wrote that.

- **Grammarly** a 
- Acrolinx
- Copy and paste into Word if you have to

I'm writing this in Visual Studio Code and using the `Code Spell Checker` extension to check for spelling errors.

### `CTRL + F` or `CTRL + H`

The hotkeys for find, `CTRL + F`, and find and replace, `CTRL + H` are your friends. 

Here are a few `CTRL + H` "hacks" that I use all the time.

- **Single spaces only** - I search for "  " and replace with " " on pretty much every page I work on.
- **The wrong apostrophe** - one of the sites I work on requires "straight" apostrophes `'`, but many individuals copy and paste their text straight out of Word, which uses "curly" apostrophes `’`.

## Read out loud

This is pretty straightforward, read your work out loud and you'll get some feedback. Maybe it's something worded awkwardly or you've used a word that doesn't fit with the style of the article. Maybe it's just that you hate your voice. Either way, this is another opportunity to identify areas where you can improve. Just make sure that if you change your word, you read it out loud again.

## Bring a friend

Or a colleague. If you're writing something that you think a lot of people are going to read, get someone else's eyes on it. They **will** sport something that you've missed in the previous rounds of editing&mdash;even if there have been 10 rounds of it. Our brains actually misses typos for efficiency, [Wired wrote a whole article on it][What's Up With That: Why It's So Hard to Catch Your Own Typos], but your friend's brain might just catch something you've become blinded to. To make it quicker and easier, let your friend know what they should focus on:

> Could you edit my article for spelling & grammar errors and note formatting issues?

Focusing your request not only sets expectations, but also ensures that you don't receive feedback that equates to a rewrite.

## Iterate

If your job involves lots of writing&mdash;you'll inevitably ship something with an error or two. It's fine, you'll be okay. That said, the internet will **not** pass up an opportunity to let you know you messed up. _Make sure you know where your site's user feedback is located and use it to your advantage._ Usually your company's fans will locate your typos quickly, so check in on your feedback soon after launch. Consider the first few days (or weeks, depending on traffic) a soft launch for your content during which you can work out the bugs.

## Summary



[What's Up With That: Why It's So Hard to Catch Your Own Typos]: https://www.wired.com/2014/08/wuwt-typos/
[]: 
[]: 
[]: 
[]: 
[]: 
[]: 
[]: 
[]: 
[]: 
[]: 
[]: 
[]: 
[]: 
[]: 
[]: 
[]: 
[]: 